.\" qcvm mdoc manpage
.Dd January 31, 2013
.Dt QCVM 1 PRM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm qcvm
.Nd A standalone QuakeC VM binary executor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm qcvm
.Op Cm options
.Op Cm parameters
.Ar program-file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm qcvm
is an executor for QuakeC VM binary files created using a QC
compiler such as gmqcc(1) or fteqcc. It provides a small set of
builtin functions, and by default executes the
.Fn main
function if there is one. Some options useful for debugging are
available as well.
.Sh OPTIONS
There are 2 types of options. Options for the executor, and parameter
options used to add parameters which are passed to the main function
on execution.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show a usage message and exit.
.It Fl trace
Trace the execution. Each instruction will be printed to stdout before
executing it.
.It Fl profile
Perform some profiling. This is currently not really implemented, the
option is available nonetheless.
.It Fl info
Print information from the program's header instead of executing.
.It Fl disasm
Disassemble the program by function instead of executing.
.It Fl disasm-func Ar function
Search for and disassemble the given function.
.It Fl printdefs
List all entries from the program's defs-section. Effectively
listing all the global variables of the program.
This option disables execution.
.It Fl printfields
List all entries from the program's fields-section. Listing all
entity-fields declared in the program.
This option disables execution.
.It Fl printfuns
List functions and some information about their parameters.
This option disables execution. With a verbosity level of 1, builtin
numbers are printed. With a verbosity of 2, the function's sizes are
printed as well. This takes a little longer since the size is found by
searching for a
.Ql DONE
instruction in the code.
.It Fl v
Increase verbosity level, can be used multiple times.
.It Fl vector Ar 'x y z'
Append a vector parameter to be passed to
.Fn main Ns .
.It Fl float Ar number
Append a float parameter to be passed to
.Fn main Ns .
.It Fl string Ar 'text'
Append a string parameter to be passed to
.Fn main Ns .
.El
.Sh BUILTINS
The following builtin functions are available:
.Bl -ohang
.It Li 1) void print(string...) = #1;
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent -compact
Print the passed strings to stdout. At most 8 strings are allowed.
.Ed
.It Li 2) string ftos(float) = #2;
.D1 Convert a float to a string.
.It Li 3) entity spawn() = #3;
.D1 Spawn an entity.
.It Li 4) void remove(entity) = #4;
.D1 Remove an entity.
.It Li 5) string vtos(vector) = #5;
.D1 Convert a vector to a string.
.It Li 6) void error(string...) = #6;
.D1 Print strings to stdout and then exit with an error (limited to 8 arguments)
.It Li 7) float vlen(vector) = #7;
.D1 Get the length of a vector.
.It Li 8) string etos(entity) = #8;
.D1 Get the entity ID as string.
.It Li 9) float stof(string) = #9;
.D1 Convert a string to a float.
.It Li 10) string strcat(string, string) = #10;
.D1 Concatenate two strings, returning a tempstring.
.It Li 11) float strcmp(string, string) = #11;
.Li 12) float strncmp(string, string, float) = #11;
.D1 Compare two strings. Returns the same as the corresponding C functions.
.It Li 12) vector normalize(vector) = #12;
.D1 Normalize a vector so its length is 1.
.It Li 13) float sqrt(float) = #13;
.D1 Get a value's square root.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gmqcc 1
.Sh AUTHOR
See <http://graphitemaster.github.com/gmqcc>.
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs on <http://github.com/graphitemaster/gmqcc/issues>,
or see <http://graphitemaster.github.com/gmqcc> on how to contact us.
